Video ID: 6mU5nN5nlLA
/home/nate-agx/.local/lib/python3.10/site-packages/requests/__init__.py:113: RequestsDependencyWarning: urllib3 (2.6.3) or chardet (7.4.0.post2)/charset_normalizer (3.4.4) doesn't match a supported version!
  warnings.warn(
Transcript: 20738 words
Physicalism as such has been dead since the time of Pythagoras and probably long before that. The basement of all this, I don't think it's math. I think it's a behavioral science. I think math is a behavioral science of a certain kind of pattern. It's a bioelectric code because literally they preede and actually instruct the patterns of gene expression and and cell behavior and morphagenesis. If you want the the system to make an eye on a tadpole's tail or or have a flatworm that has two heads like this or whatever, you have a chance to do that. We're dealing with an aential material. This is not passive matter. >> Why assume there's this layer where there's a structure that we can't quite quite get at? I would say it sounds more like we just haven't figured [ __ ] out in this realm. Why assume there's another one? Uh, so I make a crazy addition to this that that I'm not sure anybody else agrees with. My hypothesis is Michael Lean and Earl Miller are revolutionaries in the field of bio electricity, just at radically different scales of biology. and they've never recorded a conversation together until today. Leaven works on single cells earl with the human brain and they arrive at the same impossible idea from opposite directions. Bioelect electrical waves are the engine of life all the way down. Memory, intelligence, goals, and possibly consciousness are no longer just properties of the brain. Please remember to subscribe to the channel as our focus is questions like how far down does mind really go? And I'm not going to stop standing on the shoulders of giants like Earl and Levan until we figure it out. >> Go, hey, liver, like why, you know, how are you doing? Why do I feel like crap? And what's going on? And our group have uh have made some some progress in talking to things that normally don't talk. You're not talking to genes. You're not talking to individual cells. You're talking to the system as a whole. The system knows things that none of the parts know. And and and you can talk about very abstract things like eyes. No, no individual cell knows what an eye is, but but the system does. And the deeper function is of a cognitive glue. It is what allows the group of cells to remember that hey we're making a face of a particular type and to store memories that no individual cell can access to store goal states in spaces where none of the molecular components can access it. >> You should have been around 2530 years ago when you you study the stuff people thought you were rubbing crystals together or something like why the hell would you study electric fields? It's all magic. It's all [ __ ] When a paradigm takes hold of a field people resist it, resist it. Resist it. Resist it. Kind of kind of what what's going on now. This is like maybe the craziest thing I'll say is that Michael Lean Earl Miller, it is such a true honor and pleasure to be able to host you. Welcome back to the Giant Show, your fan favorites. I'm so excited for this. Welcome. >> Thank you. A really fascinating area of overlap in your work seems to be bioelect electricity and its role in driving the organization and function of biological systems. But what I'm curious to start with is how you first got interested in this question. Michael, maybe maybe start with you. Where does that story start for you? Well, it depends where you want to start counting. I mean, my earliest experience is I was really little, probably five or six, and my dad used to uh take the back off of our TV set and it was this like, you know, little screen in the front, like this giant thing with a vacuum tubes. And I remember staring at this thinking and he explained that this was not just random that all these pieces are there. Somebody knew how to put all them put all of them together. So, that was amazing. And also the fact that the stuff you see on the front of the TV isn't in the back of the box, right? And it's different every time, but the hardware is always the same. So that was like that that was a total you know uh kind of mindbender and so I thought of that for a really long time and then and then of course in in biology with neuroscience trying to understand uh how how how living systems use those kind of uh those kind of processes to store and process information. So I was I always thought there had to be some connection and then somewhere around uh well it was 1986 I I happened upon Robert Becker's multi electric and the best thing about that book was the bibliography and he had he had like references going back to like amazing work right Burr and and and people in the 40s and and and other others later on to uh to point out that yeah this was you know this was critical for morphagenesis for regeneration for embryo So, embryionic development. So, that's that's that's where my interest dates to. >> I I'm also old enough to remember when when TV sets used to have vacuum tubes and when one would go bad, I'd go with my dad to the drugstore and there'd be a tube testing machine. You have to figure out which tube went went bad and replace it. But I think my my genesis ma mainly begins with with with the electrical environment of the brain begins I was a physics major for a year when I was an undergraduate and one of the biggest mistakes of my career is not going further in math. Now I got to work with mathy people instead of doing it myself. But when I first start got into neuroscience first I was then I was a premed major and I I volunteered to work in a neuroscience laboratory so I can get into medical school and then I started doing experiments and fell in love with the brain. Um, but it always it I it always struck me that the dominant view of the brain at the time was this like telegraph system thing where where all the neurons are all wired together into a network and spikes travel down lines down axons and influence one another and you know all the spiking and all this spiking by the way for those of you who don't know what spikes are bit of neuroscience jargon is the is the brief electrical impulses given off by individual neurons and the idea back when I uh became a young neuroscientist This was that and still is the dominant idea today that the brain works as like a giant telegraph system and these little spikes of neurons are like Morse code going down the wires and only influencing other neurons that are connected by the wires. And I thought but this whole thing is an electrical system and these spikes exist in an electrical environment. That's how that's how these electrical impulses are generated by neurons having electrical potential AC difference in electrical potential across their membrane. I thought is shouldn't this contribute to an overall larger electrical environment? Should shouldn't that play a role? And when I was a graduate student, like if you wanted to study things like um electrical fields or local field potentials, as we call them when we're inside the brain, you want to study electrical fields, people thought, well, why do you want to do that for? That's crazy. You could study the neurons. Why why do you need the uh the bigger the big stuff is just the humming of the car engine or the fumes given off by by the engineer don't really do anything. And right from the beginning, I thought that was crazy because this whole brain exists in this this electrical environment. How can one thing be important, then the other thing not not be important? So, I've been sort of chipping at this for a long time. Back when it was very unfashionable, and now that it's it's becoming more fashionable, I'm I'm I'm uh if that's the right word, I'm happy to say. >> Very cool. Vacuum tubes seem to have influenced both of you a lot more than me. I would I wonder why that is. I am no very cool to hear that background. Well, so I was gonna tell you the one of the biggest influences on me very early on is I for my dissertation I did one of the me and a posttock did one of the first multiple electrode recordings in visual cortex right and we want we were using four electrodes wow big deal four whole electrodes now we use hundreds electrodes but back then it was four and we had to sort all the waveforms from the electrodes into single neuron traces the state-of-the-art computer we had at the time was a PDB11 computer in our laboratory library where at Charlie Gross's lab where I was a graduate student and we we want to do a principal components analysis of the waveforms to sort them into meaningful signals and the PD11 computer at the time was wasn't powerful enough to do it. It would take him two weeks to to run through the analysis for a two-hour session, right? But there was this guy at the University of Pennsylvania named George Gerson, an electrical engineer/neuroscientist who built a waveform principal components analysis system based on all analog technology like the kind of uh technology that Mike has in the receiver behind him. He did it all with just just capacitors and resistors and and a waveform generator and B. So it was an all analog um principal components analysis um waveform analysis that was more powerful than the most powerful digital computer of the day and that made a huge impression on me. I think that's been echoing in my brain ever since. >> Extremely cool. Very very cool. Mike, what's the best way for the listener to understand the bioelectric code? What's the right way for the listener to think about this? So there's a couple of different levels that you can appreciate this on. One is simply the fact that if you look at and and we'll I'm going to tell a a sort of particle story and then we could talk about the field aspect because I think you know that the field aspect is is really critical and under underappreciated but just the part that we've that we know right now is is easier to tell is the is the particle view which is that uh if you if you look at uh tissues what you see and these are active tissues during embryionic development during regeneration during remodeling repair resistance to aging resistance to cancer. Any of these scenarios where large groups of cells have to be have to cooperate in some way to build some sort of higher level build or repair some sort of higher level structure. When you look at these things, what you find is that there are very slowly changing uh patterns, spatial temporal patterns of resting potential. So basically, as far as I'm could as far as I could tell and and and obviously Earl is more of an expert on neuroscience than me, but I I believe that almost anything you get out of a neuroscience textbook, you can apply to these examples if you slow down the time constant and you don't, you know, sort of or assume that they're neurons, you just say cells. And in fact, I've had my students, and now we have a um a a system online that actually does this for you. You paste it, you put in a neuroscience paper, and it changes neuron. It replaces the word neuron with the word cell. and then it replaces millisecond with minutes and you get yourself to develop biology paper. There's a few other things you can you you would change but but the mapping is like really strong. So the point the point is that all of these tissues have this very active biological dimension that you can measure and uh and more importantly when you go in and we made the first molecular tools to read and write that that information. when you go in and you change those patterns, what you find is that uh you then have a control over the resulting anatomy that you that you built. So in other words, if you want the the system to make an eye on a on a tadpole's tail or or have a flatworm that has two heads like this or whatever, you have a chance to do that. So, so what you learn from this is two things that there is a it's a bi-electric code because literally the patterns that you see encode they preede and actually instruct the patterns of gene expression and and cell behavior and morphagenesis that you're going to see later on. That's a b you can decode them. So at least to some extent and we only scratch the surface but to some extent you can look at the pattern you say oh well I know what this thing is trying to build and then you can actually change the code and have it build something completely different. So, so, so you learn that. You learn that the biomectric pattern is is encoding outcomes. You learn that it's instructive because if you change the pattern, the system happily builds something else. You learn that it's a very top- down control, which I think has real implications uh for for neuroscience, which is that much like when I'm talking to you now, I don't need to worry about your synaptic proteins and how you're going to listen to what I'm saying. You you will take care of all that. We have this very high level interface and your own multiscale architecture will take care of all the chemistry that that downstream of that. The same thing is true here. When we tell the tadpole, a region of the tadpole to make an eye or make an extra brain. We don't I I don't know how to make an eye. I don't know how to control all the stem cells and all the gene expression that has to change. We don't touch any of that. We give a very high level prompt that says make an eye. And much like your highle goals that ultimately change the chemistry of your muscle cells so that you can get up and execute on those goals in voluntary motion, all of this gets filtered down so that once once I get the tissues buy in that yes, in fact, we are going to make this eye versus whatever the pattern was previously, everything else falls into place, right? All the all the uh the the the gene expression, the cell movements, everything else is taken care of because we're dealing with an aential material. This is not passive matter here. So, so that's that's the third thing you learn is that you can talk to um the collective. You're not talking to genes. You're not talking to individual cells. You're talking to the system as a whole. The system knows things that none of the parts know. And and and you can talk about very abstract things like eyes. No, no individual cell knows what an eye is, but but the system does. And we can we can we can communicate with it in that way. So, so that's that's kind of the first and the most basic thing. And the only thing I'll I'll add to that is that I think there's a deeper function to biomectrics. Like it's it's beyond this. And the deeper function is of a cognitive glue. And what I mean by that is that it's a set of mechanisms that allows the system to be more than the sum of its parts. It is what allows the group of cells to remember that hey we're making a face of a particular type and to store memories that no individual cell can access to store goal states in spaces where none of the molecular components can access it. So once you have this and there are other kinds of biomectric move but but it's it's a really powerful one that allows you to align your parts to common purpose in a space that the parts don't know anything about and that's why cellular collectives get to solve problems in anatomical space and to navigate anatomical space just like and I'm will tell you more but but I think this is very parallel to what happens in in in the brain where you get to navigate this this 3D world so adaptedly in ways that individual neurons don't know about because this electrphysiology ology allow allows the scale this you know the scale up of goal directed so that's that's what I think we're talking about >> brief intermission from standing on the shoulders of giants for today's sponsor Jenny one of the topics that we cover in this episode is brain architecture how the way the brain and biology is structured and wired really informs how a system can be made and what it's good at this is a weirdly good way to think about Jenny Jenny is built the other way around to typical LLMs It's an academic writing tool that grounds everything directly in your sources, the PDFs you upload your zotterero or mendlay library. So when it helps you draft, it's pulling from research you've actually vetted. And if you want to search beyond your library, it also only pulls from academic work. All of it traceable back to the exact source. So no hallucinations, which is always the biggest fear with Chat GPT or Claude. One of my favorite things about Jenny is the reviews feature. For example, you write your section, run the review, and claim confidence checks your claims against the sources that you've already cited. While peer review simulates an actual academic review, it marks your weaknesses, your strengths, and it scores your draft. Jenny won't think for you, but it will take all the friction out of organizing sources and checking citations so you can spend your cognitive energy on what actually matters. Try it for free at jenny.ai. There is a link in the description with a special discount code for Giant Shoulders listeners only. I cannot recommend them more. Now, back to the episode. >> Awesome. It really was grill. I mean, that's Oh, it's amazing how parallel that our thinking is just different systems. I mean like um what I approach I approach it I've always been interested in in top down control, executive control and that's what our brains are doing which are special. We we can take control of our own brains. You could build a a very complex feed forward network that'll just respond to inputs in a mind mindless way. That's not what our brains are doing. Our brains are taking charge of our own thoughts. We're controlling our own processing. We decide what we're going to pay attention to. We process it. We respond accordingly. That's our brains somehow imposing a self-organization on themselves along the lines of of our goals and our knowledge and stuff like that. So, how does the brain do that? Well, your cortex contains 20 billion neurons and 10 to the 14 synaptic connections. Under the the dominant the 20th century model of all the telegraph system, which I call connectionism, which is still kind of, you know, very dominant today. Under the connectionism model, how do you produce that kind of top- down control where where the system can control itself? Well, under connectionism, the way of thinking about the brain where is this all about spikes and how in synaptic connections somehow the system has to get control of like 10 to the 14 a gazillion synapses and somehow control them like a puppet master that just seems in computationally intractable. It's just just way too complicated. But however what you have this when you have an electric field a fluctuation electric field and we look at oscilly dynamics when you have an oscillating electric field as soon as you have that wave function you know with a very simple um equation you know the action of the wave at a distance and and a time into the future and that's consistency that's organization and that's just the kind of thing evolution is is is going is is going to take advant advantage of right it's a way of the system to self-organize itself so now so you think about what what um a lot of people are looking at now in system neuroscience. Now we have the ability to record from hundreds or thousands of neurons simultaneously instead of one at a time like when I was a young graduate student and you look across whether you record from 100, 200 or a thousand neurons what you do is you do something called subspace coding. So if I take a thousand neurons, I can create a thousand dimensional spa space to explain what those thousand neurons are doing with each neuron being a vector and the and the spike rate, the amount of activity along the vector. That's just self-evident, self-descriptive. But then what we do is we ask ourselves, how many dimensions do I actually need to explain what these thousand patterns of spiking from a thousand neurons are doing? And the answer is you can explain it in three dimensions. So what that means, a spiking cortex in the shared variant sense isn't like insects buzzing chaotically in the night sky. They're like birds flocking together, right? That's what that's what your cortex is doing constantly. It's it's highly highly coordinated. Well, to my mind, I mean, the best way to produce that kind of great way to produce that kind of coordination is throw an oscillating wave wave, electrical wave across a network of neurons, and you'll get that automatic, you'll get that flocking of of activity. So, I think of it as very early on, as as Mike pointed out, you know, the biology is electric. Um, very early on, nervous systems are full of recurrent connections both on short scale, long scale. probably very early in evolution, simple nervous systems naturally began to oscillate because that's what recurrent electrical systems will do is begin to oscillate. But that oscillation that's just a simple oscillation, but it's still it's an it's it's an internal organization. So before that, you know, you can imagine a creature to just swim towards food or swim away from light. Uh that's like a thermostat just reacting to the outside environment. But the moment nervous systems got complex enough and probably very early in evolution got cut to begin oscillating on their own right there that that's an organization. It's a dumb organization is a simple simple oscilly dynamic. But now the system is providing its own internal organization and that's something evolution could have and likely took advantage of find ways to push around those dynamics and now we have a system that can control itself in a computationally tractable way. You know, one one one thing that's one thing that's worth noting is that uh it's so you know, so so Earl and I are very much on the same page about all of these things and and the symmetry between these fields, but it's a really controversial point. Um, you know, we've we've we've been used to in in developmental and cell biology this idea that we have to have models of that that that good models in those fields are models of subunits that don't know anything. They don't have any goals and uh they're just mechanical outcomes of of low-level chemical phenomena. And that's that's how it's got to be. And this this idea that um you know when when I start to talk about goal states you know and not not high order like human level goals but just you know cybernetic kinds of things right like your thermostat has and so on start talking about goal states and navigation of spaces and memory and learning and these things these other systems people's people people initially um are very suspicious about it and they say well you're trying to smuggle uh some sort of you know mysterionism into the process magic the magic right but I'm like look guys there's a whole department here that we had a neuroscience department here where where this kind of high level control is not magic there's I don't know how many people you know and and and and people like Earl who actually study this stuff what is what is the problem with testing out tools that are working so well in other fields and by the way uh in our field using exactly the same mechanisms it's the same stuff it's the ion channels it's the electrical synapses it's the neurotransmitters even even the even the mechanisms are concerned Right. So, so there is this this weird notion that on the one hand there isn't any magic and the neuroscientists will figure out what's going on in the brain. On the other hand, the minute you start talking about um you know learning memory um goal directedness, high-end go highend intent and all of that immediately it's it's you know it starts to seem like you're you're trying to um trying to opuscate it. So it's a very it's a very weird schism I think. Oh, you should have been around 25, 30 years ago when you you study this stuff. People thought you were rubbing crystals together or something. Like, why the hell would you study electric fields? It's all magic. It's all [ __ ] It's just just it's just a it's just just kicking the can down the road by invoking magic. And I mean, basic electromagnet magnetic principles are not magic. It's the way the electro electrical system works. It's not magic at all. There's nothing magical about it. In fact, if the if these electrical field oscillations, waves didn't turn around and it's a birectional influence. It has to be. It's the way spikes are generated. And when spikes generate change in the electrical fields, they change the electrical environment around them and that's going to influence spiking. In fact, if it didn't work that way, you'd have to come up with a pretty good explanation on why it didn't. Well, does the brain have some sort of Bose noise cancelling system to cancel all these electrical influences? Of course, it it has it has has to work that way. And because that's just basic theory, but besides that, I have the philosophy that first of all, first of all, a lot of this stuff is just pure Thomas [ __ ] you know, uh, structure scientific revolutions. When a paradigm takes hold of a field, people resist it, resist it, resist it, resist it, even when it's obvious it's reaches it expiration date. And that's kind of kind of what what's going on now is people are just resisting for for no because they're used to doing it one way, right? But this is not the way. That's not the way I my philosophy is is two things. One thing is I'm not going to tell the brain how it works. I'm going to listen to the brain. Let me tell how it works, you know. And secondly, if I can make sense of these so-called magical electric signals, electric fields and stuff like that, local field potentials, things beyond the spiking, if I can make sense of them with my crude technology of of electrophysiology here in the 21st century, I'm guessing four billion years of evolution found a way to make use of it, too. Yeah, very well said. You know, interestingly, uh, one, one of my, uh, favorite, uh, the one one of my scientific heroes, um, this guy Harold Harold X Burr, who was working late 30s all through the 40s, early 50s. Um, he was he was incredibly precient about this stuff and and he, you know, he was an early neuroscientist. He he basically really didn't have any tools other than the first good voltmeter, you know, that and he went around measuring all sorts of stuff. And one of the things he was very clear about in his in his book was the importance of the field aspect of all of this. So he talked very he talked a lot about the the symmetry between the field descriptions and the particle descriptions and the idea that yeah they obviously have to work together and and go back and forth. But the two the two uh ways of looking at a system have very different implications in terms of what how you understand it, what experiments do next and and so on. And so he was he was he he foresaw a ton of the stuff that we've since actually discovered. But he specifically claimed that until we deal with the field aspect that bio electricity whether developmental or neural that bio electricity was not going to reach its full um potential no pun intended uh until we really get hold of the field aspect not just not just the particle descriptions but the but the field aspect. >> Yeah. and Donald Heb and Walter Freeman, classic neuroscientists from the 30s and 40s, they talked about um electric fields and effect coupling all the stuff we're talking about now, which goes to show you there's no new ideas, just old ideas rediscovered. >> So over and advanced on Yeah. Oh, to totally Yeah. So, but I'm curious is there is there any fundamental differences that we can point to towards bioelectric codes happening at the level of the plenarian flatworm regrowing a second head and a human brain choosing between eating a sandwich or a chocolate bar for lunch? Is that the same bioelectric codes operating at different scales or is there something we can actually point to that is fundamentally different at those two levels? Well, I would say that it's the it's the electric fields, the biomectric fields that are providing organization. And that that doesn't mean by code. I would say there's there's no difference between what uh um structural biology and and what what the brain is doing in terms of his daily operations. Now, Mike probably has more of a um insight into how a plan how a a worm grows a second head than I I do, but it seems to me that what we're both talking about is there's this higher emergent level um of electricity where where that's providing an organization that's sorely needed by both the developing body and the operating brain. >> Yeah, I mean there's there are a lot of things that are very much the same and then there's a couple of things where we can start to look for differences. So, so things that are the same are the the underlying machinery is basically the same. So, ion channels, electrical synapses, neurotransmitters downstream of that, you know, gene expression downstream of that. So, so that that's all that's all there. The use of these things to navigate a problem space. So, in in in your sandwich case, you know, the threedimensional world, in our case, the anatomical morph space, right? So the space of all possible anatomical configurations and you have to get from here to there or you have to maintain your spog where things are trying to you know push you over and so on. So so that's all the same the ability to form recall and uh uh interpret flexibly interpret memories that's that's all there. The things that are that are perhaps a little bit or or that may be different one is that uh in in in our system you get a lot of long range um communication. So, so everything is connected. Things I do on one end of the embryo has implications for whether there's a tumor or a birth defect or something else like way over on the other side. So, everything is non-local. But what you don't see as much, a little bit, but but not certainly not like neuroscience is um long range pointto-point connections. So, very specific um you know uh I'm going to connect this point to this point and and there's something special about this path. We we don't see as much of that. It's generally like there's a lot more um sort of topological connectivity there. Um although maybe even my picture of this is not you know Earl can can correct me on some of that stuff but but you don't see these extremely long range connections. And then and then the other thing is I just want to sort of be very clear that when when I say that that aspects of neuroscience apply here this is not a philosophical or a linguistic point. I'm not like redefining intelligence to be complexity or something like this. I'm making a very specific experimental point that we can take these things and use them to do better experiments and to reach new competencies in in in morphagenesis. And so so we've done all we've we've seen all kinds of stuff, but for example, one thing we haven't seen and I'm not saying it's not there. I'm just saying there's no evidence for it and we haven't seen it. For example, proper um generative grammar language. Okay. So, so I see our system doing a lot of things that brains do, but we haven't seen them do anything that I would claim as actual language. So, we haven't seen that. We've seen tons of other stuff that you would find in a neuroscience textbook. If you just pivot the, you know, pivot the time scale and the and the and the space from from 3D space to amorphous space, you see a lot of it. But there are some things you don't see. And clearly there's some reason why, aside from the time speed up, there's some reason why a lot of creatures, certainly not all, but a lot of creatures have neurons and brains. And so my guess is that they do that you don't eat milk and so on. There are going to be some differences but but massive overlaps. >> Yeah, more overlapping differences for sure. And you know the pointto-oint connecting the way I think about the um cortex is that all these the traditional way of thinking of the telegraph system with the changing synapses and you change the strength of connections and therefore you get that that's that which is the way AI the kind of model that AI is based on these large language models all about associations and connections. I think that's a great way of storing information. But when it comes to expressing information, express that that's where these these fluctuating electrical fields make make a make a big difference. They help the brain do computation. The current the traditional view of neuroscience is the connectionism is used for both storing information and also for computing. And this is a little bit overly divisive and and simplistic, but I would say at least cortex anyway, the this memory storage is is taking place through the connections. And it's the it's these electric field effects where a lot of of high level computation is going on. So that's a whole different level of you know an of computation that that's largely been ignored by the field. But I'm happy to say now that the the field is way more accepting of it than it was 2530 years ago. More people are doing that kind of work where back in the day it was just a few of us. >> So So Earl, um could I follow up on that? Uh you know you're talking about storing information. could you give your view of what you think the basis of of memory storage is in the you know classically in in the brain and then and then I'm going to ask you um for you know uh how how that might fit with some some of the sort of weird edge cases that that that we see. >> Huh. Well, I think you know in in terms of um you know I keep saying the 20th century connectionism models if in a dismissive way. I don't mean to be dismissive. A lot of the brain does work like that and that was certainly foundational. So you don't get to where we are now without going through a building up the system first cataloging it and fig figuring out the b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b basic units of it. But I think in terms of memory storage, that's where that's where the the connectedness model is is largely correct. You the brain stores information via synaptic plasticity changing changing the weights of connections to neurons and the information get baked into the brain that way. What I'm saying is that then when when actual thought comes along, that's not storing information. That's expressing information. That's expressing thoughts. And when that happens, that's where these electric fields and these these these emerging dynamics really begin to play a major role because that that's where the that's how lot the computation takes place. And do you think that uh does that so so the standard view of of the synaptic plasticity and all that does that require for these structures to hang around you know people have memories that are 80 years old and things like this. How much how much of an issue is the is the constant sort of turnover and of all of this stuff? >> Well as long as you maintain long as the turnover maintains the existing patterns of connections. You could just replicate the whole brain have a completely different brain you know next week and it'll also operate the same. Um, you know, so that that's a challenge. You gota either your whole body is, you know, constantly regenerating itself for the most part. Um, but you just got to maintain the pattern of of connectivity. But you're about to tell me I suspect some alternative view of memory that doesn't that that can accommodate this massive turnover. So go ahead. Well, I don't I don't I'm not going to try to float a different view of memory, although I I have kind of I have some doubts about the about this the standard story, but but but there are a few um there are a few, you know, cases that that I think are are interesting in in that respect. Uh first of all, for example, the scenarios of um memory transfer so memory transplant. So, so in a variety of systems and and some of it was done for simple memories, it was even done in rats, but but most of it is in sort of the lower so-called lower life forms. You get these you get these experiments where either cells or oftentimes uh extracts. So, um either brain extracts or in some cases audio and brain extracts are moved from a trained uh from a trained donor to a to a recipient and there's some degree of uh some degree of of recall that that sort of follows along. Right? people have argued for some sort of a chemical medium for memory that then has to be read out by the nervous system. Like that's one example we've we've done when and like McConnell found this in the 60s, but we've done this work in pleneria where you can just you train them and you drop off the whole head and they regrow a brand new brain from scratch, a brand new centralized brain from scratch and then they have recall of the original information. So you can see information then moving we can't say it's non neuronal but but you can it you have to move on to the new brain. or you know those kinds of of things, you know. >> Yeah, I know. Yeah. And and you're right. I the thing to remember is that you know um living organisms had behaviors and can learn and stuff even before we had nervous systems. You know like uh you can do simple classical Pavlovian conditioning just in single cells with just chemical gradients. You don't need a nervous system to do that. Nervous systems are a way of expanding on that basic repertoire and getting more and more more complex behavior. So yeah, so I I that simple simple memory simple behaviors can be transferred in a chemical way. But when I'm talking about memory, I'm talking about like you know higher forms of memory like like recall and and a personal recall and stuff like that and our knowledge baked in. I think that's that's got to be somehow involved in in the patterns of connections between the um neurons because we know that they change as a result result of learning because what I'm saying is that's that's a great way to to um store things but not a great way to do to do uh computation. But yeah, I mean there memory and learning predates nervous system. So so some stuff on chemical transfer from one trained animal to another does doesn't surprise me that much although it's beautiful elegant work. And what do you think about um we we just we just did a review of clinical cases where uh you've got humans with normal in some cases above normal you know intelligence performance level and radically reduced brain function. There are some crazy cases where somebody's you know somebody's shown a finally you know an MRI or half their brain's missing. Yeah. Yeah. Like >> or much more right there are these very hydro hydrophille cases and so on like what what do you think is going on there? Well, I think brains are very very plastic and especially if the if the disruption happens very early in development, brains can accom can develop around that and accommodate a lot. If you see that kind of um damage or change in an adult brain, you're not going to get a you're not going to get normal function. No way. This these the cases you're talking about tend to happen when when the when the when the change happens very early in development and brains can sort of um develop develop around it. But you're not going to see that kind of thing in the adult brain. Yeah. Uh yeah, I I mean I'm with you that the plasticity must be important in some way. But but what I find curious about that is that I I my my understanding is that we are under considerable um selection not to have very large heads because of the birth canal and all these things, right? So there's some pressure on not having a giant brain. So, it seems to me that if if there was a way to get the same level of performance out of far reduced that like that's what's weird to me is that is that some some of these cases you get you get very normal performance out of a much reduced uh amount of brain mass. And it would seem to me that that evolution would be under and not not to mention the energetics of the brain, right? And how much of our energy budget it's it's chewing up. Like it seems like if if there was a way to get all of that with a much smaller brain, it seems like there's a lot of pressure to do that. It's just >> Sure. But but Mike, I think every time this happens, you don't end up with a person who grows up to be a normal adult. A lot of times it happens, the person ends up with severe learning disabilities or dead, you know. So you're hearing about the few successes, not about not about the a case. Um, first of all, and second of all, the thing about the plasticity of turnover, one thing that I always kind of remind myself is there's something in the brain called multiple realization. So for example, I think it was Eve Martyr at Brandeise, she studied lobster pyloric motion. that's um in the lobster gut and that's just moving food down the intestine. simple simple simple um action and that's so just like squeezing a tube and that that's explained three three ganglion the neuron in the lobster gut are responsible for this and I think you found that you can I maybe get the exact numbers wrong here but you found that there's computation there's a 100,000 different ways you could tune up these three ganglion and get the exact same pyloric motion so there's lots of ways in the details to do the same things in our brains even so even with this turn over you form a memory and this these this synapse for example then it turns over. Well, there's lots of other synapses and lots of redundancy, but it but the again the exact details don't matter so much as the principles that that arise out of it. So, you know, you could there you have a 100,000 lobsters all with their ganglion tuned up 100,000 different ways to get the get the exact same function. In a lot of ways, that's where our brains are. Like you you're born with your quartz at your bowl with way too many more connections than you're going to have. What happens when you're a young infant is the connections get winnowed away and you're left behind with connections that represent the reflect the statistical regularities of the world like corners and edges and stuff like that. So you're born with way you're born with a random seed of way too many connections and your own individual experiences will window those down to fewer number of connections that have some meaning of the structure of of the world. Well, that means all of us are born with slightly different brains, different brains in the details and we all have different experiences. So, all of our brains are wired up in in a in the details in a different way, but they all operate on on the same principles. And if you think about in terms of less about exact anatomy than the principles that arise out of the way the anatomy interacts with these with these uh emergent properties, then the the the details um um and the turnover and things like adaptability seem like less of a problem. If you're anything like me, then you thought that skin irritation was just a part of shaving. Two out of three men believe this. And it's because it's what these multi- head cartridges do. They're built for flexibility, but that flexing creates uncontrollable movement on the skin, which causes deep damage and irritation. Well, Hensen shaving did the science. And you know, on this channel, we love a good experiment. 59 volunteers shaved one side of their face with a Hensen and the other shaved using a multi-blade cartridge. They then used multisspectral near infrared spectroscopy. This is the same imaging tech they use in neuroscience research. Quite shockingly, they found that the multi-blade cartridges that are advertised to us constantly did 50% more skin damage than the Hensen blade. Why is this, you ask? Well, the team behind the Hensen are literally aerospace engineers. They build parts for the International Space Station and the Exom Mars rover. This razor is machined to tolerances of 5 10,000th of an inch. The blade sticks out less than a width of hair. 30° fixed angle, no wobble, no flex. When the blade can't vibrate, it can't flex and cause that inflammatory cascade in the skin. It's metal. It has a really premium feel and honestly when I use it I feel like James Bond in that scene where Money Penny is using the cutthroat razor just has a really nice feel to it as opposed to these garbage plastic ones that I've been using my whole life that are actually causing more damage. Hensson are giving Giant Shoulder listeners 100 free blades with your purchase of a razor using the link in the description with the code the Giant Shoulder. Once again, 100 free blades. That's over 2 years worth. use the link in the description. Now, back to the episode. Earl, do you think there's evidence that humans can store memories outside of the brain? I was speaking to Nikolai Kokushkin from NYU. He seems fairly convinced that, you know, we can argue that maybe cells on by themselves have memories related to their own specific goals. But I'm talking about actual human memories here. The memories that we have as a human unified system. Is there any evidence that those memories can exist outside of the brain? Memory is a broad term. Do you mean the um what I did yesterday? What what I watched on TV last night? You're talking about sort of more broad kind of um form of memory because certainly we're learning a lot more about interactions between the brain and body. You know, the brain is not isolated from the body. It's constantly getting metabolic and other information from from the body and then feeding back and changing things. So, it's it's an interacting system and little things like metabolism make make a huge difference in in the brain function. So, it doesn't surprise me there's going to be memory in the system. The brain is the system together with the body. There's going to be memory in that system. But I'm but I'm trying to understand how specific or high level of a memory are we talking. What about an actual autobiographical memory? Like an actual memory of of your life. >> I don't know of any evidence and Mike or you can correct me. You know where where there where actual autobiograph episodic memories we call them where they're taking place somehow outside the brain. Is there a study that shows that? I don't I don't know. >> I mean, so so I'll tell you the the kind of study that that could I I don't I'm not sure the evidence is is very good yet. I I think the the cases are are few and there needs to and I'm not aware of an animal model unfortunately for it. So um we have to kind of wait till these clinical cases show up. But the kind of case that I've seen I've seen case reports of um memory trans or I don't know if you call it memory but but transfer in heart lung transplant patients. So one of the things that you you occasionally see in cases of uh heart lung transfer is not specific episodic memories but um personality traits. So there have been claims of specific personality traits moving over from from a donor. Now this is obviously like a like a wild claim, right? So I'm not saying the evidence is is is strong at this point. But if but if that were to be true, I think that would be the kind of thing you're talking about. And then and then and and I'll tell you I'll tell you an experiment that we're doing now that's that's kind of fun along those >> just made up just one second but we keep talking about case studies remember case studies are they're not study study what there are other descriptions of of oneoffs. So case studies are are examples here's something interesting we should we should investigate they're not not strong evidence in and of themselves. >> Yeah. Yeah. 100 100%. Yeah. I just, you know, I think I think if if thea, if the case studies pile up, then then I think it suggests that we need a model system to really study this. So, so the closest the closest thing that that I can think of, and so we're going to we're going to do this uh shortly. I don't know if if you've heard of these um amphibots. So, we make these we take um adult human patients donate tracheal epithelial biopsies when they go in for, you know, for for for um sampling. And we take the cells and we allow them in the culture conditions. What they do is they re assemble into a little little protoorganism that basically moves around on its own because it has celia. So they round up, they move, they run around on their own. They have all kinds of cool properties. They express 9,000 genes differently than than they otherwise would. They can heal neural scratches and all kinds of stuff. But one of the things we're interested in doing is, you know, when when you buy these things, you get a little you get a little sheet on the patient that um that donated them. And what I want to do and and some of them were smokers. So what I'd like to do is to uh get some get so you see where this is going. I'd like to I'd like to make from smokers. I'd like to see if the anthrobots show an affinity to nicotine. They don't have any nervous they don't have a nervous system. They're tired work out absolutely may not regardless it's amazing. But that's the kind of extra I like to do, right? That if it does work out then then then you know you you know we're we're overlooking something. So >> sure. But a chem a chemical sensitivity isn't the same as an ep episodic memory though. >> No doubt. No doubt. That would be a very that would be a very simple low-level you know low-level kind of thing. But but but but still what what I think but if it does work what I think would be cool about that that idea is that you typically so so what you started with is a patient in which uh some kind of cells presumably in the brain are addicted to nicotine then they drive muscle-based behaviors to go seek out nicotine right in a rat that's the presumably that's the story you would tell that there are neurons that are that are addicted to nicotine and then you have this like muscle driven behavior to go get the nicotine in the anthrobiot there are no muscles there are no nerves So you're remapping whatever is going on there. You're remapping it onto a new architecture where you now have epithelial cells and you have little cyia which is how which is how you row which I think is cool and biology tells us that works because of the caterpillar butterfly memory transfer. So there are experiments right where again caterpillar butter caterpillar me trained caterpillars pass on their memories to the butterfly which never mind how the information survives the the tear down to the brain. The to me the more interesting thing is that you've now remapped it on a completely different uh sensor and array. So you no longer move like a soft body creature like a butterfly. You move now at three dimensions. You fly with a hard body kind of architecture. You don't care about the the leaves that you chewed as a caterpillar. Now you want the nectar and like all these things are different but you get you but but the memories get remapped. And so I would love it if I I think it would be fascinating if we could show in a mamalian system that that those kinds of the the the uh addiction to the nicotine would then remap onto a different body plan which is what the anthropods do. And then what I'm going to do if that does work, what I'm going to do is take the anthropods, I'm going to stick them stick stick those into a rat and I'm going to see if we can then pull it out pull the the information back out and have the rat now back to the to the musclebased motion. Right. So this is our >> if the rattle will pop down to 7-Eleven for a pack of smokes. >> Get a pack of them or a red. That's that's absolutely insane. Would you try it for other addictive things as well, other drugs? Would you get, you know, pull tracheal cells out of opiate addicts and try and see if they have a, you know, an affinity for cappa opioid agonism or like would you extend that then beyond nicotine into other receptors into other addictions and see how how broad spectrum that could be? If this works and again just to underscore I'm not making the claim that this is a thing where this is just something that we're going to try right this is >> you try gotta try >> it's a it's an experiment that's born by having you know weird ideas about how memories can be transferred across tissue and so on but if it works then obviously um not only not only would I try different kinds of addictions forget addiction I would then I would then go fullon and see what other kinds of behavioral propensities you can move right what else what else is movable are are you know our memory, right? Our our our fear-based memory skills, uh, experiences, like what else what else can you move? So then then then you have an assay, right? Then then then you have an assay for these things. >> Yeah. I mean that that that would be fantastic. I really really hope it works out. I really want to see that. Um, and it would be it's a great idea for experiment. It's a fantastic experiment. them and and it wouldn't surprise me if it did work out because like I said we had multisell single cell creatures had learning and memory and they had it all by chemicals chemical waves of of chemical flow um long before we developed um nervous systems. So I think it's quite possible a lot of these chemical sensitivities can be kept can be kept or chemical affinities can be kept across creatures and then you then have a downstream downstream effect on behavior. Why not? I love it. >> When are you gonna do these experiments? Are you doing them now? >> We are. We are beginning them now. So So we're going to start we're going to start this summer. Um yeah. Yeah. We we have we we had a lot of other we just finished this this uh this well the pre-print is up. The real paper hopefully will be out soon. Uh looking at memory and zenobots. So zenobots are a similar kind of idea. This is Vikov Kai's work in my group. Zenobots similar kind of idea with frog epithelial cells. and we've been giving them experiences and then reading out their memories in terms of their behavior, their calcium signaling and their gene expression. So we can read out which ones have had an experience a particular experience and they can distinguish between two different experiences and so on. >> Right? So, but we do need to keep this kind of in perspective in the sense you know a lot we we keep saying memory is a memory is one thing and actually memory is a it's a different thing so it's a continuum and it's a wide range of things and you know um we had um u memories and learning before we really developed um complex brains or anything that we would like I'm not going to define just try to define what consciousness is but anything like human human consciousness and you know so things like like people often attribute a lot of a lot of highle stuff to behavior or that may not be um um warranted. Like you know, people common thing is that you see the bear and you run away because you're scared of the bear. When in actuality, you know, the conscious mind is about half a second behind in uh in time and in what's going on in the real world. What actually happens is you you run away and then later on you get you later you get scared and you use that as episodic memories for in the future I'm going to learn to avoid bears. But your behavior at the time was a simple automatic reaction that even multiple cell creatures on nervous system can can do. So, but we tend to see it and we look at through our lens of a conscious mind now and say, "Oh, that person ran away because they were scared. They had a conscious experience of the bear and they they they ran away." But it's really not the way most memories work. Most memories are kind of unconscious and and and uh a lot of times your your uh conscious mind is just kind of kind of along for the ride to build these higher level episodic autobiographical memories that you can use for things like deliberation later on. So we shouldn't over interpret um behavior as being something approaching the kind of like conscious kind of memories that we have. That's all. >> Yeah. I I mean I I agree with all of that. I'm I'm not planning to make any uh any claims about consciousness from any of these data because because that's a whole other kettle of fish that >> didn't she see the rats would go down to the 7-Eleven for a pack of smokes. Oh, yeah. I said that. >> That was you. Yeah, that was me. Sorry. So, you know, so yeah. Yeah, I'm not planning to make any any claims on consciousness based on those particular experiments for the exact the reasons that you said. However, um I would say that I I don't think that for for for me anyway, human level consciousness is not the bar here. I'm interested sort of much more broadly and and something else is that I'm I'm very suspicious of >> the of um things like unconscious learning and and unconscious any kind of unconscious process in general because the way we the way we distinguish them typically is by asking the human were you conscious of this and the human says well I wasn't well great you weren't conscious of my my experience either so you know it's Yeah, that's the problem. Humans are the only creatures that we can confirm consciousness in because we can ask them. Other creatures we have to sort of infer it, you know. >> Well, well, even but but even in a standard human, you have you have one voice that makes a really good case for himself or herself linguistically, right? So, you got probably a left hemisphere that puts up a great sort of uh story about how look, I'm the I'm the I'm the real boss in here and like I have, you know, I have consciousness and whatever. you got a bunch of other stuff that you don't really know how to interrogate and and and you can ask uh you know they kind of like I say the history books are written by the winner you know I feel like neuroscience books 100% you are 100% correct consciousness is often the story your brain makes up to explain what is just at least part of your brain makes up to explain what just happened that is that actually what's what's what's going on in many ways consciousness is overrated it's really only good for planning the future behavior and stopping yourself from doing something stupid you just decide to do. Other than that, consciousness just kind of along for the ride. But that doesn't mean it's irrelevant. Doesn't mean it's there passively. I It's there for a reason. Planning and deliberating are important. But but it's amazing how much of our life we do without planning and deliberating. >> Yeah. I just I you know uh what for me I'm I'm I'm cautious in uh being uh sort of um constrained as to how we understand a first-person experience of structures other than ones that have language. You know there's all kinds of structures in our bodies and other things that we make that may well have certain all kinds of experiences that they're just not able to tell us tell us a story about. And we're part of the efforts in our lab is actually to make um communication interfaces to all these all these kinds of things that we can we can talk to them. So I'd like to be able to you know on your phone instead of hey Siri I want to be able liver like why you know how are you doing? Why do I feel like crap and what's going on and and and be able yeah have have a language have a language interface. We've got we've got some so um Yambo Jang and other folks uh in our in our group have uh have made some some progress in talking to things that normally don't talk and and I think it you know we I think it's important. No, >> I love it. I mean I I completely agree with you. I mean consciousness is kind of overrated. I mean I I'm studying consciousness now but the it's because I'm interested in executive functions, how the brain controls itself. In a more broad sense, consciousness is not really all that important all the time, but it's important if you want to do things like figure out how executive functions work because they're they're kind of the pinnacle of that, the apex of that executive top down control process, but they're not the beall endall of everything that's going on in the brain. Not by a long shot. So, what do you think? Um, uh, Earl, uh, you so, so you were very kind to give a talk to my son recently. I watched it was super cool. I was I was interested in um uh your uh your your your stuff on anesthesia and readings from the brain. You know, you talk >> um >> could you could you talk a little bit about that? And what I'm interested in is applying some of that some of that same kind of analysis to the things that we study that don't have a brain. So, for example, we've been study we've been doing calcium re and calcium recordings from from zenobots and anthrobots. Um, no neurons, but we're hitting them with we're hitting them with anesthetics and uh and and and hallucinogens and all all kinds of stuff. And you can record Yeah. If you want to, you know, see Zenobots on hallucinogens that that's going to be a thing. >> I do. >> Yeah. >> Hallelujah. It's coming. >> You do. I asked Hi about that and she said she hadn't thought about it. I said, "When are you giving the neurobots DMT?" And she laughed in my face. >> Yeah. Well, okay. But we're never on it. I I don't have I don't have a permit for DMT yet, but but we're we're on it though. Um we're on top of it. But uh but but but really like like being able to do those things and then get the same kind of readings uh as you're getting from brains. What do you think how does one interpret those in in that case when uh you're dealing with a system that's not the same but your tools are perfectly applicable to this to the data set that you're getting? >> Yeah. How applicable is the different systems is an empirical question and I would love to know the answer to that. But what we're doing with anesthesia is that um well may be disturbing to know because anesthesia has been around what what was the ether dome 1849 the first demonstration of uh over here at MGH. So anesthesia has been around for like since then but up doctors still don't know why it works. It just all they know is it's like a lot of things in medicine. It works you know we don't know why it works but it works. So let's we'll keep using it. Thank god we have it because I don't want to go through surgery without a uh anesthetic. But the tacid assumption for many years is just just simply shuts off your cortex. just turns it off like turning off a light bulb. And and what I've been talking about with electric fields, we study electric fields um emerging electric field dynamics in the brain. And what they take the form of are these oscilly dynamics, these brain waves, these squiggly lines you see when you record EEG from the scalp. And probably everybody's familiar with them. When they're squiggly, you're you're awake and you're okay. If they're ever flat, you're in a lot of trouble. You're either dead or in a in a coma. It turns out that what anesthesia does, it does shut off your cortex. It changes the brain wave dynamics. It shifts them from higher frequencies we associate with cognition to lower frequencies. And the other thing it does is it misalign the waves. Before when waves were in sync together and you want a system to be in sync so it can influence itself. But then what happens anesthesia shifts everything low frequency then misalign the waves. Now the waves are out of sync one another. And out of sync means this set of neurons in an excitable state and while this one's quiet and the other way and if they're going to be doing that they can't talk to one another. or anything that's what causes disconnects cortex and causes unconsciousness. But the more general point is that you know we've done we've seen this same effect with three different three different anesthetic drugs that have three different effects um propol anesthesis of ketamine and dmetondine and not vex isn't really an anesthetic it's more of sedative but the point is they render you into this state and we're seeing these effects in these three different drugs that act on three different receptors in the brain three different parts of the brain if you talk to our reductionistic colleagues or into connectionism and in detail details of snapses and ask how do all three of these drugs do the same thing make you unconscious. they would have to be forced to say they operate three different pathways, right? Well, we're seeing all three of these drugs despite their different pathways on the redistic level do the exact same thing or very similar thing on on this higher higher emergent electrical field field level. And right there, that's an explanation on this electric field level that something the correction effects of all these different of these three different anesthetics that can't be explained on a reduistic level. That doesn't tell you there's that's a functional functionally important level. I I don't I don't know. And I forget why we talk started talking about anesthesia, but I will mention that this is not just an academic thing about making people what causes conscious or unconsciousness. We're now we developed a closed loop um anesthesia delivery system. You record EG from the scalp and it feeds into the system and now you get tighter control over anesthesia. And we're we're developing this now and trying to get introduced for clinical use. And the advantage of that is when you get to be old about my age, anesthesia is something you should ab general anesthesia should absolutely avoid when when you get older because there's these um they're associated with both short-term dementia and then uh lower relative long-term dementia. You hear these stories all the time. People say, "Oh, grandpa was doing great till he had that surgery um for the heart and then uh you never bounce back from that cognitively." This is anesthesia is really bad for you when you're old. And part of that may be because what anesthesiologists are doing is they're monitoring your heart rate and your and your respiration and your blood pressure to see how unconscious you are instead of measuring the actual thing that that's going unconscious. So we think if we could actually have a better system for understanding the electrical signatures of unconscious that you could read in the alarm with simple electrodes on the scalp then you could reduce exposure to anesthesia and solve a major p public health problem. And I forget why we started this conversation about anesthesia. Well, I brought it up for I mean it that sounds that sounds awesome because uh I'd love to use your system with our with our Zenobots because because I think I think it would be totally usable. And then the question is what exactly are we doing to them when we put them in that state? Like what what what is the sort of uh either either a qual qualitative or functional? >> Do your little creatures have oscillating electric field dynamics? >> They they sure do. >> Yeah. >> All right. All right. Let's talk. >> Yeah. So we should write we should we should we should do some of the analyses. I mean the other thing the other thing is you know what you just said about um the dangers of general anesthesia for for older folks. I frankly I >> young folks too by the way. >> Well well this is the thing. If somebody said to me hey I I I invented this thing. We're going to we're going to we're going to uh uh break up a lot of the electrical connectivity of your brain and it'll go into a different state. But don't worry eventually when when we sort of wash out the gas everything will come back and you'll be the same person you were. I would have been like are you kidding me? like that that does not seem like that should work. I'm amazed that anybody comes out of it the same way they went in. Does that >> does that surprise you at all or am I am I off off base here? >> Well, you know, brains are very resilient. The biological systems are are resilient. You you need I need to tell you that. And then what's what's going you're probably changing the EI balance in in the system. Then it's it's it's making it go into this domain where the waves are are are uh and but once you get rid of the agent that's changing EI balance the natural system of the brain with this recurrent connections EI balance bounces back. I know I'm I'm kind of trivializing it but I agree it's amazing that it actually works and you know thank goodness it does because uh uh thank goodness for anesthesia is all I'm going to say. We don't want to be in a world without it. >> No no for sure. It's just wild to me and and I mean I don't know if all of them do but certainly some of them um disrupt gap junctional connections and right and and when you do that at least in our simulations u of non- neural cells you don't come back to the same state necessarily and I mean sometimes you do but but often times you don't so it just it's it it it's it boggles my mind that it that this ever works for anybody. >> I agree trying to figure out the details. I'm really curious on uh anesthesia experiments with xenobots compared to neurobots. Maybe first give a little breakdown of what neurobots are and then I'm really curious to know would you have any difference in predictions on how anesthesia might interact with both of those systems. >> Yeah. Um so so first the definition so so xenobots are self assembled from frog embryoepithelial cells. neurobots which were um first created by Hale Fawat in my lab who's now at Harvard. Uh she introduced neurons into them. So they're basically zenobots with a core of neural cells inside. So they have a nervous system. So you know the reason the reason I wanted to do that work was I'm curious like like if if you look at a standard animal with a standard nervous system and you say why does it have that kind of nervous system usually you say well because evolutionarily here's the environments it had to deal with. here are the ancestors that it had. And therefore, the nervous system has been shaped by selection pressure to have specific properties and whatever. Well, there have never been any zenobots. There have never been any neurobots. There's never been selection pressure to be a great neurobot. So, my question was, what the hell does a nervous system look like in a creature that's never existed before? I mean, obviously frogs have existed, but but but zenobots are not frogs. They don't look like frogs, have the same body plant. So, so what would that look like? So, that's what I was interested. And and and we've done some behavioral analysis. um we need to do tons more. I mean, so there are obviously some differences, but the thing the thing about knowing what to predict is I don't necessarily know what to predict from anesthesia even in Zenobots in the first place. Like one of the things that we're doing is um and this is this is some work with the Neil Seth's group and and some other folks uh to look at metrics that people are using to judge you know conscious awareness wakefulness sleep coma nobody home you know all the different options that use different kinds of metrics you know there's causal emergence and whatever that all these tools so so just to understand first can we even say what is it that that these anesthetics are going to do in a in a zenobi is it going to stop moving Is it going to not be able to uh solve certain problems that it could solve before which we're still you know characterizing all the things that it can do. Um it's it's it's not super clear to me. Uh what the one the one prediction that that I will will will give is that I think whether with neurons or without neurons I think we're going to find important differences. And I think that yes, no doubt the neurons are going to add some some cool like bells and whistles on it, but the fundamental phenomenon I think we're already going to see with epithelial cells. I I don't think it's going to be unique to neurons. That would be great, but I mean like things like propol, which is a common anesthetic, acts on GABA receptors in the neurons. So what's the equivalent of that in a in your xenobot? >> I don't remember specifically if xenobots have GABA, but but GABAS like like those receptors are >> robbots do. >> Yeah, they're present. Let's do that experiment. Yeah, >> it's goblet cells, right? Gobblet cells have I believe I believe goblet cells have GABA receptors. >> I think I'm embarrassed. I don't remember exactly. Uh because I know we did well like we've we've did the transcript almost. We know exactly what's there. Uh lots of let's put it this way. Uh in general lots of machinery that you find that that are that's neural machinery like all the serotonin stuff um you know glycine receptors gavo like that stuff is present in all kinds of cells. So it may it may well be there. Yeah, let's anesthetize. Let's start with neurobots. Let's anesthetize them. I mean the uh so this by the way this week anesthesia I'm doing with Emry Brown who's not only a professor at MIT like me. He's he's a practicing anesthesiologist. He knows. >> I think I you know what? I think I emailed him for for for a um uh for a dumb uh dumb question like the and maybe you guys have an answer to this so I'll follow up but a lot of the anesthetics that we try to use are not water soluble and right and and and I I don't know if that's if that's a standard thing or not but but because these because all of these biobots they they function underwater basically. >> Oh that would be that's a problem. >> Right. So so either we're using it or we need to we need to get it into the water somehow. So maybe maybe I'll pick your brain afterwards about how to how to do it. >> But your neurobots, so they have a they they're showing these um emerging like electric field dynamics, oscilly dynamics. What's what's the what's the frequency profile, right? Is it like the human brain or animal brain where it's like anywhere from one hertz to 100 hertz or more? >> I'll send you I'll I'll I'll get you a full profile and send it to you. I don't remember sitting here today. I don't remember what the but but there are lots of we've done we've done uh some some calcium signaling imaging and I bet you know I bet we we have the kinds of things you're looking for but let let me see >> if if they're like you know the primate brain uh a human brain then um we should see these profiles get basically shift down to a lower frequency. Let's start there. Let's let's see see if uh that happens. And also it isn't just simple you know lower fre there's this whole cascade of events that happens in the primary brain. first this mid-level frequency of alpha goes up in your frontal cortex and then that's at the start of induction then it cascades down to so there's a whole like cascade of ostory events and if we could see you know first of all whether the state change is the same as in the neurobots then whether the cascade is is the same or which elements are there which ones aren't that would be wicked cool. Yeah, we should. Yeah, we should look and and and you know, it's also possible that the whole thing might because because in general um non-neural cellular bio electricity functions several orders of magnitude slower like a lot of the same but it's just much slower. So what you might see is that the whole thing is slow but then it gets even slower, right? >> Yeah, >> we might you know it yeah it might be a relative. >> Well, you know these frequencies are not magic. or not a certain band is good for something different just like saying a spike is always does one thing or another but even the exact frequencies don't really matter like like um um human brains like animal brains they tend to be higher frequencies because the brains are smaller so the recurrent connections are shorter scale what's really important is relationship between the waves it's more like the different brains can play the same song in different keys basically it's the harmonic relationship between the waves are going to be important you see this kind of nested frequency coupling or octave effects and stuff like that because that's wave music is sound waves and electric waves are the follow the same principle. So what's important is the relationship between the waves not exactly what their frequency is that what the exact frequency is. How do you explain or do you have any explanation for the visual expression genes in this neurobot? So we you keep we keep seeing this strange uh gene expression in these novel um little creatures as Earl said and now I will I will use that phrase forever now to describe any of these things as as little creatures. And we saw hearing gene expression in xenobots, right? And now we're seeing visual gene expression in neurobots. And to me, this is so funny because it's almost like you have this novel accumulation of cells being dropped into an environment and it's like it's reaching for a sensory apparatus. It's like, right, what the hell do we do, guys? Completely new environment. How can we reach for something to make us help us navigate this environment a little better? That's I'm probably extrapolating a lot there, but that's kind of seems like what's happening to me. Do you have any explanation for this? >> So, so there's a couple of interesting things. So, so just to say what the basic observation is, we were interested to know uh what is the transcriptto of beings that have never been here before, right? So, so we know the you know standard transcripttos have an evolutionary backstory that tells you why certain genes are up or down if we we we we think they have that back we assume they have that backstory. And so in these things we we just ask the question, okay, so so what what new genes do xenobots and anthrobots express that their parent tissues did not express? Okay, you can't do the reverse because they're obviously missing a ton of genes because they don't have, you know, endoderm, they don't have misoderm. They're missing a bunch of so you can't do that. But you but you can ask what extra like what additional things do they express. So several hundred new genes, anthrobots about 9,000, so like half the genome. And and the thing is it's it's you know, you said they're in a new environment. In a certain sense they are, but but just to be clear because because a lot of people say, "Well, if you put things in a weird enough environment, you know, of course they'll turn on, you know, different genes." The environment for the zenobots is basically the exact same environment the embryo was in. They're not in some crazy new um, you know, set of parameters. They're in weak saltwater just like the the frog embryo was. The one thing that's missing, however, are the other cells. So normally what happens is that these epithelial cells are basically bullied by all the other cells that that give them a very boring life as this like outer covering of a frog embryo that's just going to keep out the bacteria. And so those are gone. So you so it's like engineering by subtraction. You remove those influences and now the tissue gets to do whatever it natively wants to do. Well, this is what it wants to do. So um so so why are they expressing these hearing gen? So so they express a whole cluster of genes related to um sound perception. And we saw that we said, "Well, let's stick a speaker under the dish and see if they can really, you know, sense sense vibration." And sure enough, unlike embryos, xenobots, when you when you give them, and this is like this is just sine, like a simple sine wave, we haven't done, you know, bak and whatever. You give them a, you know, you give them a simple sine wave and and and they absolutely react differently when when the sound is on. Um, why are they doing it? I don't know. But I kind of go with what what you just said, Evan, which is that I think all all morphagenesis, even normal standard embryionic morph, like all morphagenesis is trying to answer the question of what the hell am I? What and and what is the most um uh uh uh you know, sort of efficacious uh coherent story that I can tell in anatomical space and and typically that ends up, you know, dogs have puppies and cats have kittens because usually they answer things the same way. But but but what evolution made in that in most cases are problem-solving systems that when they are in a different configuration will solve the problem in a different way and if they have access and I can give you other examples of uh complex systems using different molecular affordances to solve problems when situations get really weird. Um I think they're trying to uh yeah they're trying to have a more coherent life in their environment and and uh this is now what we're studying you know very very vigorously is to find out um what what exactly that that plasticity is >> that what life is local reverses of entropy using as little energy as possible. I mean life kind of wants to be organized right >> I I think that's true. I you know I don't know if I'm I'm a little skeptical. I mean I know it has to be tried and and and there's been good work on it. I'm a little skeptical that that's kind of that that those kind of um entropic explanations going to be the whole story or like even the best perspective. But but obviously it's it's a useful >> Oh, it's not really an explanation. It's kind of just more of a philosophy, but uh you know >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a you know, it's a question of it's a >> how it happens is the whole story. >> Well, it's a question of drive, right? What is the fundamental what what what the you can ask people like what do you see as the fundamental drive of biology? And some people will say uh it's it's entropy, you know, reduction. And some people will say it's um uh uh propagation of information, right? Reproduction. Yeah. Yeah. I I'm skeptical about either of those as as like I I'm not sure that's going to be enough, but but but those are the kinds of questions we have to ask. >> Pretty cool. >> Yeah. I have nothing to add. Mike, when I asked my community you were coming back, all of the questions they wanted to ask you were related to the platonic space of minds. Could you lay out in a way that I really want as many of the listeners to possibly understand because this is so cool and so weird and so sort of hard to wrap your head around, but can you give us like a good model for thinking about what the platonic space of minds is? How should we think about this? All right. Uh let's we can we can we can get into it this way. Um the the the things things that we want to explain in all sorts of arenas in behavioral arena, in physiological arena, in anatom and an anatomy, gene expression, whatever, there are certain there are certain patterns that that we see. And one question we like to ask in science is where did those patterns come from? Okay, with the put putting aside for a moment the whether whether that's that's you know whether whether come from is is is well is well but but but what is the origin and and very specifically the spec the why you got a certain pattern versus some other kind of pattern right that's where we're interested in knowing and so typically when you when you're looking at that in a standard um plant or animal uh this and you say okay why why this versus that the the answer is because there's a long history of selection against specific environments that that got you right. So, uh, now what we can do is we can make novel beings where you can't really tell that story that that same story falls apart. Yes, the cells were part of embryos that that do have an evolutionary history, but they weren't selected for the kinds of crazy things we see them now doing now. And so, you might ask, so where do those come from? So, then we take a step further back and we say, well, where do things come from in general? So, so where where where you know where do what are what are good explanations? Well, let's see. We have um there are facts of genetics and heredity. So, so history and then there are facts of physics. Is that it? Like are those typically the only things and typically by like cell biologists would say yeah those are the two things you've got you've got a history you've got you've got basic physics and you've got and and together those things um sometimes give you emergent features. And what are emergent features? Well, there are things you didn't see coming, things that surprised you, and and if you did have a good explanation for them, they wouldn't be emergent anymore, but they would, you know, they would have some underlying some underlying explanation, but but emergent are are features that that were surprising. So, so you ask that question. Okay. Is that does that really uh exhaust the the list of explanations? And I would say that that what the what what at least some healthy sector of mathematicians would tell you is that no in fact that that is not the only place where in important information comes from. There are also important facts that are not facts of phys. You say what what what what are those? Well, those are uh c certain certain facts of mathematics and the truths of number theory and and the exact value of the natural logarithm and things like that and and you know fen bounds constant and various rules about uh you know how spheres will will will pack together in certain dimensional spaces and so on. Uh these are things that these are truths that a you you you don't discover them in physics. So, so you can't just fire the math department and hope the physicists will tell you why the quitterians don't obey the same laws as the complex numbers. Like that's the physicists don't come up with that even though they really care about the outcome of those things. Uh and if you were to change the constants at the beginning of the big bang, you couldn't make them any different. In other words, there is there is no fundamental constant of of physics that you could change that would that would alter um uh you know the you know touring the truths about the halting problem and things like that. These things just don't don't affect that. So that suggests that there is a space uh of of uh very specific facts you know it's the four color theorem it's not the nine color theorem it's you know and it's and e is has a specific value and so on there is there is a set of facts that are not facts and so now so so now you can say this uh we we already know that those things are important for things that happen in physics and biology if you if you start asking why like a 5-year-old keep saying yeah but why why why eventually you always end up in the math department. So if you keep asking the physicist is why it's white out why do the particles do this or that eventually it's okay it's because this this mathematical object has a certain symmetry about it and that that's why you know that's why the firmia if you ask why did the cicas come out at 13 13 and 17 years it's because it's because they're trying to avoid predators uh to time them and you're cool so why those numbers not because they're prime why are those prime go to the math I think so >> so there's a s there's a very specific fact that are not facts to physics and and so those facts uh are important for things that happen in physics and biology. So I make only one additional claim on top of that that this is like I know not everybody agrees with it but but this is so far there there's large sectors of the of the scientific community that that agree with that. So I make I make a crazy addition to this that that I'm not sure anybody else agrees with but but here's a hypothesis. My hypothesis is this that once you've uh taken the basic scientific um uh optimistic assumption that the that the latent space of these facts is not a random grabag of of emergent surprises that we just get to catalog when they show up, but it's a structured ordered space that we can systematically investigate. I think that's that's just the basic scientific exception. Then we can say that I don't want to argue about whether it's a realm or not. People hate additional realms. I don't care if you call them realm. I don't you know people ask what the onlogical status is. I don't care about that either. I I'm an engineer. It's real. If I have to worry about it or if I can exploit it in some way. So that's that. Uh but what I what I do hypothesize is that whatever that latent space is that contains these truths, it doesn't just have things that mathematicians care about. Those are perhaps the lower level of of of low sort of low agency patterns that just kind of sit there and and and maybe don't change. But I I I hypothesize that it also has other patterns in there that are highly dynamic complex patterns that we would recognize as behavioral propensities aka kinds of minds. So what I'm so all I'm saying is we take basic mathematical platism and the relevance it has for biology which I think is huge and then we just say there really isn't any uh reason to have this founding axiom that okay but but all of those things are only suitable for math. There's no other there's no other kinds of patterns and I suspect that other patterns in that same space are readily recognizable to believer scientists and we've done some very crazy experiments along those lines that I think are important. >> Can I play devil's advocate for a moment? Isn't the more personalist explanation we haven't just haven't figured [ __ ] out? I mean, in the end, why why assume there's this um up layer where there's a structure that we can't quite quite get at when when actually we just haven't we just we're we're scientists haven't figured everything everything out yet is where we have I know you don't want to use a realm, but I would say it sounds more like we just haven't figured [ __ ] [ __ ] out in this realm. Why assume there's another one? >> Uh so so I'm I'm 100% in agreement in the sense that what I >> just to be devil's advocate by the way. I'm not saying we're wrong. I'm just saying that >> I I don't think you've said anything yet that I have that I disagree with in the sense that what I am what I'm not claiming this very very important because because I people people do um complain all the time that I'm you know sort of trying to make things mysterious. That's not at all what I'm saying. I am not saying that this realm is where you push things that you're never going to understand and and that's why there's a bunch of mystery. That is not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is that we seem to uh in in in in the sciences that we care about in physics and computation in in in biology, we seem to be dealing with at least at least two different uh domains of things that are that are um amendable to different tools. You can >> I hear I hear but that that's the whole point, isn't it? Is it more like just what there's science and math is just running ahead of everything else because everything else is slowed down by technological limitations that math is less uh constrained by. So math is just ahead of everything else doesn't mean doesn't mean they're talking about some third thing we don't know about. Well I think I mean look uh it's entirely possible that I'm not sure if that's more parsimonious. It's a kind of a promisory note to say eventually all of these things will be encompassed by physics as well. I can't disprove that. That may well be true, but I suspect that the kinds of uh >> That's my other issue. It kind of kind of sounds defeist to say we we um you know, we're having trouble figuring it out here, so it must be something else. >> No, I I think it's exactly I think it's exactly the opposite because I think this is a very exciting um the beginnings of a very exciting research program because because when I argue with people, I say, look, there is a structured latent space of patterns that we can we can study this and we can study that by making novel embodiment as we've done. We've done some crazy stuff recently where where we can make we can make novel systems where where these patterns come through and you can study them and you can try to understand the metric of the space. You can study you can try to understand the mapping between the structures we make and the patterns that we get like all of this is it's a perfectly good research program. But the >> you have a research program to study this thing and I I retract my statements then >> we we absolutely have a research program. This would be I would be I would be nowhere near this this idea if uh if this was some way of pushing mysteries off into another into another realm. I'm >> I good. >> Yeah. What what I would what I would uh actually I I turn it around and and and typically um uh the way people resist this kind of thing is to say there's no there's no structured space. There's just regularities that hold in our world. They say well well they say they say it's emergent and they say well what what does that mean? And they say well these are regularities that hold in our world. That's all. They say, "But but but but if if you don't think there's a structured space of these regularities, what you're basically saying is it's random or a causal and when they show up, we'll write it down in our big book of emergence and and and and that'll be the end of it." Well, you know that that I think that's much more defeist. I would much rather think that that there is a structured space as the mathematicians think there is and as they study you know going to you find one thing and you use that as the jumping point for the next thing and then we can we can actually use them to uh to improve our our experiments. I like I think this is this is you got to assume it's it's tractable. >> Just you give an example catch up >> this crazy stuff. Could you give an example of this in platonic this platonism in biology? Can you give an example that the listener can really latch on to here? is this, you know, sea shells and, you know, the Fibonacci sequences. Is is this sort of what we're talking about? >> No. No. Uh, I mean, that stuff has been done, uh, but lots of people, lots of people have done things like that, but that that already exists. I don't I don't need to add to that. Um, our So, so let's let's put it that So, so here's here's what I'm interested. Here's here's part of part of the research program. Um to the extent that we think that the standard stories of of physics, of computer science, whatever uh uh tell tell the story of what we need, what what what we get in certain circumstances. Uh we should be able to use the existing frameworks to make predictions about how much effort you put in to creating something and what do you get out of it. Okay? And there should be there should be a match. And we have we have all kinds of all kinds of current paradigms and like what the cost of certain computations for example. And so and and what I'm interested in is is for looking for mismatches. I want to I want to find situations where the standard paradigm uh that the accounting that the standard paradigm says between what you've what you've put in when you created something versus what you got out of it when there's a delta. And and I want to understand what that delta is. First of all, can we show that there is a delta which basically just tells you I mean that's compatible with what Earl said which all that tells you is that the current methods are incomplete. I mean clear enough everything is incomplete eventually you sort of get to the end of it right so so so find out find out where where these where these frameworks are incomplete and b quantify by how much they're incomplete and what is the if there is a kind of free lunch here and I'll define that in a minute what kind of thing is it and how much can can we can we quantify and the thing with biology is that it it often it gives you very impressive examples but biology is so complex you can't really prove anything it's always you know Well, maybe there's some quantum microtubial in there or something or there's always there's always something, you know, some kind of a mechanism that you don't know about or you haven't found yet that that it's it's very hard to like to prove anything. Um although although it's good for starting to ask those questions like we know when we paid the computational cost to design a frog or a human, you pay that in the eons of of bashing against certain environments. When did you pay the computational cost to have uh you know a zenobot that does kinematic self-replication? Right? So, so you we already know that there's that there's something not quite complete in the stories that we tell about these things, but you can't really quantify any anything there. Uh, so what we've done is create very minimal computational systems where you know exactly what you've put in. You can see the entire algorithm. You know, there's no magic under the hood because that there's no it's not a quantum event. It's a purely classical deterministic system. There's no, you know, this there's no funny business. And yet what you find out uh is that uh you get out more than this you you in terms of in terms of behavioral competencies you get out more than you put in. And so the question is by how much and and what do you get? Do you get static patterns? We already know that's true from the from the shells and then you know and sunflowers and all that. We we already know that. But do you also get problem solving capacities? Do you get compute? Do you get um uh uh you know do you get there's a million other things it could be anyway. So so that so that's the idea. So so what we're doing is we're we're we're creating very simple systems. We're characterizing them using the conventional mech the conventional means of saying okay here's what here's the algorithm here's the mechanism here's what this thing should do and then we put them in novel circumstances actually they can do a bunch of other stuff that we never put in. See the thing the thing is uh in the standard paradigm there are typically three uh uh ways that you put in effort. Either somebody to to make a controller that does something useful. You either write an algorithm that means there was some engineer that knew how to solve it and he wrote the algorithm or you evolve it. So you look for high large numbers of variants. You don't know how to solve it but you look for large through large number of variants and eventually you find one that does a good job. Or three you learn. So you've had contact with the problem before. you took your lumps when you got it wrong and now now you now you can do it th those are typically three three places where where you can put an effort. So we are specifically making systems biological but also very simple computational systems where none of those three things happened and yet the system has some sort of competency that you would not expect and that ask that that enables you to quantify what did you get uh and and why did you get it in this case and not other cases? Why did you get this competency versus some other competency? How much effort did you save? And that's something that's that's really cool is that we can actually quantify like how much extra did we just get and where the hell did it come from? And um and those those are the kinds of things. So uh I'll give you specific like you'll be able to see we've got we we have one thing that's published. We have a couple more that's going to come out this summer. Um you'll see examples of it. But that's but that's the point. The research program is to make systems where you think you know what you should get out of it and actually you get much more out of it. And that's the delta that I would like to understand. And that delta is not just to finish I'll shut up delta is not complexity. It's not ability. It's not just perverse instantiation. It is problem solving competencies that would be recognizable to any behavior scientist and they show up in substrates that you would not expect under the standard paradigm. >> So you want to measure andor figure out the structure of our scientific prediction error is what you're saying. >> Uh that's that's one way to put it. Sure. Yeah. That's one way to put. >> All right. >> And are you are you claiming that that delta is caused by non-material forces? Now, I know we can get into a debate on what you really material or physical means there, but if I'm interpreting it right, is that delta or that anomalous what recording that you're seeing, is that fundamentally non-physical or non-material? Is that part of the claim? >> See, that's the thing I struggle with is this this difference because if if there's nothing non-physical, then it must mean our error or or as it or it seems like you're saying there's something else going on. That's what I'm struggling with. What I'm saying is what I'm saying among other things is that our notion of physical causation I mean typ typically when people say non-physical we we already I I think I think physicalism as such has been dead since the time of Pythagoras and probably long before that because we already have situations where the explanation for why this physical thing does what it does the the best explanation for it is oh it's because the amplifed has this symmetry group like that is a non-physical explanation and you could say ah that's you know some some people uh say well that's a just scripture or eventually physics will get there or something that's that that's possible but I think we already right right now and for thousands of years I think we've already had examples where the best explanation for something that's happening in the physical world living or non-living bad explanation is not a physical event it is so so causation so we have yes >> as far as we know >> as as far well everything right everything is as far as we know so so like every other scientific theory. I I am completely open that that you know next year somebody could figure all this out and be like hey you know what the value of E really does come from physics not math we can close the math department and the physicist will get everything and it'll be fine like that might happen that might well happen I bet any money on that >> maybe not tomorrow but yeah >> yeah yeah I I mean right we all have to place our bets I personally wouldn't bet any any money on that I think I think I think math is is as real if not more real um a science than than physics. And I suspect actually that the basement of all of this and this is like maybe the craziest thing I'll say is that the basement of all this I don't think is math. I think it's behavioral science. I think math is a behavioral science of a certain kind of pattern from that space. Um math is just what we call the behavior of certain objects in that space and and other disciplines or other you know they study the impact of other levels of of that latent space. But I think I think I mean really that billiard ball of uh definition of causation where everything has to be physical that thing's been beaten up by by by physics itself like quantum theory right >> we have a um a Laur Lauren Ross who's a who's a philosopher of causation she and I are writing a paper like taking all this apart very carefully but uh I think be I think being able to say that the cause of important things is non-physical I am hardly the first person to say that and I I think we're already in that land for for a long time. The the real question is what's the what what how far do the implications of that go? Because a standard assumption is that yeah well it's a little bit important in in in you know in particle physics but after that you're down to like you know conventional stuff and I don't think that's true at all. >> Fascinating. I find all this so cool. I know we're running out of time, but I I really want to understand the relationship between bio electricity and the platonic space of minds and how though how you envision those two things relating to each other causally impacting each other because there is this question of what establishes the bioelectric network and sort of what I read from your work and maybe this is totally wrong and you can tell me if it's wrong please do is that somewhat thought of the of the setting of the biomectric network, the dynamic landscape is maybe somewhat established from that platonic space. Is that right? Or is that misreading thing? >> Evan, it sounds like you're trying to search still searching for something physical. >> Yeah. I mean, so so I'll tell so so I'll give you the conventional story and then and then how how I see it. The conventional story would be would be this. This is this is how you would you would tell this from the conventional point of view. uh look if you if you track let's say let's say frog development we can track from the one cell stage from the fertilized state we have a simulator that uh simulates ion channels and voltages and and and electric fields and stuff like that and you can see that from a homogeneous distribution of ion channels uh you get you get uh electrical dynamics that have symmetry breaking they have amplification positive feedback loops eventually you get some other kind of pattern and it becomes more complex and then and and so That's that's a conventional story. So on that conventional story you say okay um I see I see why why it becomes more complex and why you get symmetry breaking. And then over here it's this thing that has uh bilateral symmetry or it has four-fold symmetry or it has you know an axis with one end higher than or something. And you say well why exactly did that happen? And if you look the the real answer of course is well the mathematics of how electricity works in this kind of medium. And so in the end there is again I hate to say it but again you're you find yourself in the math department because the real answer to why it is the way it is is because the solutions to certain equations have specific forms and this you know e is over here and it's like this you know it's 2.7 whatever instead of being nine and and and that is the that is the answer. So, so and then you say, "So, so what does that mean?" And the conventional answer then stops and says, "Don't mean anything. Uh, it's emergent." That that's it. These things are the way they are. There's really nothing we want to do about that. Uh they're they're just emergent and you just have to live with it and and you can use it and you can do cool things with it. But but that but that's it. Um that you you know there's no there's no why question to be asked beyond that. So that's that's that I think is is what the conventional story is. um uh uh on that view the biomectric network is no different than any other kind of chemical you know the BZ reaction or or or touring patterns in chemical media like again well why do they have these waves because that's how the math works out that that's it that the distance between the you know between the crest like that's how the equations work so so that's fine uh the only change I'll make to that is that I I think that uh bioelectric networks whether in the brain or in body are particularly good at hosting particular kinds of patterns selected from that space. And that's why we see them doing amazing things because because they're tuned partially by evolution. They're tuned to be really really good at at hosting specific kinds of patterns. And some of those patterns are static things like hey this end be a better bolarized while this end is hyperpolarized. Kind of boring and static but important because that's an axis. or they can host really interesting dynamics like hey that's active inference or that's basian um you know inf you know basian computations or that's memory or that's whatever uh that you know and that that's it otherwise it's the it's the same story >> I I mean that all sounds great I mean I would say though when people say it's emergent they're not offering as an explanation or as a a mystery it's just a fact and then the fact that we um you have to live with it I don't think anybody says that I mean it's more like our models can't explain it yet. But emergence isn't a explanation. It's a simple property. I mean there are it's something that can't be behavior that can't be explained from the behavior of its uh components unless unless they're all working working together, but it's not an explanation. I don't think any would offer it as an explanation for anything. >> Well, I I agree with you 100% but but I think people absolutely offer it as an explanation when they didn't. >> Well, yeah, I I think so. But but but but let's put it this way. uh you know uh they offer it as a which this is the part that that I think goes back to your point um about about being a defeist is they often they often uh use it as an alternative to uh to to to asking the next question. Yeah, but why this pattern versus that pattern? Like there there is there is no why. There is no no space of possible patterns that could have come from there. There's no there's no latent space. It's just these are regularities that hold in our world. Like that's it. And and and I I I get that answer all the time from people. >> I just figure we'll get there one day. Our models our models will evolve. >> Jens, you're you are incredible. Amazing communicators, amazing amazing scientists. Just so fun to talk to. I could go for hours and hours. I'm kind of glad that we disagreed a little bit at the end because we're agreeing on far too much and it was very interesting at least a little bit at the end to to to to find some parts of uh you know division which I think is fascinating but such the focus is on this station. >> I'll just thank devil's advocate. I wish Mike all the luck in this research part. I hope I'm I'm dying to see the results. >> Well, I appreciate that. I mean, look, I I you know, I I say I say these things because because I think they're actionable now, but but I'm I'm completely open to finding out that there's better ways to do things. So, yeah, Devil's is critical at at all points. So, it's all good. >> Yeah, it's been such a pleasure to host. Thank you so much, guys. Really, really such an honor. >> Thank you. Thank you so much, Evan. Earl, great to see you. I appreciate it. Thank you. Great to see you, Mike. Great to see. The giant shoulder mission is to explore radical ideas in biology, neuroscience, and consciousness and elevate those stories to the highest possible level while keeping them accessible to everyone. If this interests you and you want to support independent science, then please consider subscribing to the clips channel. Check out our 26 neuroscience book. Can download it for free.
