Transcript: https://youtube.com/watch?v=Bodm328F7xw

All right. So, I'm going to do this video to a number of different community members because I honestly want feedback because I don't really know how to handle this situation. And yeah, I'll just go ahead and get started. So the general topic of conversation is from my perspective it looks like Fabio is just watching what I'm doing and then after some time repackaging sometimes not even after any time at all repackaging certain things that I've already covered but then just throwing out like the UAE for example and then setting himself up to be able to say see I told you so. I told you so, guys. And let me just go through this and let me get to the end of this video and understand why for anybody else that's not me, this wouldn't really be an issue and you might not even notice it, but for me personally, I do notice it because I've been covering a number of different things and I've been watching and paying attention to him for a long time.

Fabio does not support my channel. He might pretend like he does publicly, but I've had two and a half years to make this assessment. He does not support my channel, but it looks like he watches every single thing that I do and pays attention to everything that I talk about. Because with the UAE, let's just start here. Fabio started talking about the UAE over the last five over the last week. He made one other comment I think like a couple two three weeks ago, but that's pretty much it. Okay. I've been talking about the UAE since 2024. I've done multiple different videos of relating to things happening in the UAE.

For example, voluntary recycling credits back in 2024 covered this thoroughly and covered the fact that it was being endorsed and supported by the COP28 presidency, which is high-level government officials in the UAE. And in this very video, I made such a big deal about how big of a deal this was that it's happening on ICP this early, being endorsed through the UN as well and through Roland Berger. That's 2024.

Let's fast forward to 2025. I do a video making the case for why ICP is going to be the leading solution for smart cities. The example that I use later in the video is talking about how everything is already there's already a partnership in place with BIA group. BIA is a leader in smart city infrastructure globally, not just in the UAE, but they're headquartered in the UAE. And I specifically mentioned that and even show examples of their headquarters in the UAE talking about how ICP is going to be a leader in smart city infrastructure.

Then I do this is 6 months later. DFINITY government and I say important reminder Pierre came from Roland Berger. This was in May 2025. The firm that's been in the smart city consulting space for years. And there's an existing partnership with BIA Group out of the UAE and they are a leader in smart city infrastructure.

Let me back up really quick because I've covered this multiple times over the last two years. The VRC platform, this is in 2024, in partnership with BIA will help give ICP a good presence in the UAE.

And so on top of that, I just did a video three months ago talking about what would happen if in the future if countries moved to ICP, what would happen if those data centers were hit with drone strikes and I showed how it wouldn't be a problem on ICP. This was 3 months ago talking about the UAE specifically and the attack on UAE and Bahrain.

And so Fabio starts talking about this over the last week or two. And now he's like, I told you so. He made three different I told you so posts today. And the problem is is that if you go watch his I told you so video about the UAE, he just shows a few posts from Dom and says here's what here's the hints that I'm watching and I'm connecting these dots. But the reality of it is the case for why there's almost certainly something in my opinion happening in the UAE already and that's been going on for a longer period of time. The case is much much stronger than what he says in his video because he just shows a few of Dom's posts. However, for him to make the case for how strong the case is that there's something going on in the UAE, he would have to go back and refer to my work and all the different examples that I've laid out over the last two years. And it's like he's positioning himself to take credit for something that I covered two years before him and I covered in much more depth than he did. And there's plenty of receipts for this.

And somebody might say, "Well, Bobby, maybe he doesn't maybe you might say, Bobby, maybe he doesn't know that you've already covered this." Okay. So I created my private account and days later he creates his private account. Now he's had two and a half years to create his private account. So, I can almost say with certainty that he's paying attention to every single thing that I say because I pay attention to what he posts in relation to what I'm talking about or what I'm posting.

On top of that, I'm probably the only person in the whole industry who has made the case for long liquidations are the key source of selling pressure. And you have to look at the long liquidation ratio from long liquidation to short liquidation. That's almost exclusively me. I've been covering that since 2021. But I start covering that. Then Fabio starts covering that. The problem is he doesn't support my channel and he's not crediting me for anything.

On top of that, this is a real banger is that I say yesterday I'm going to do a reaction video to Dom's demo. I say that yesterday on Twitter. Guess what Fabio does this morning? He does a reaction video to Dom's demo. And Fabio does not do reaction videos. That's not a part of his repertoire. Go back throughout all of his content. You may find one somewhere, but so are all these coincidences? You see what I'm saying?

And so I can tell what he's doing is he's paying attention to everything I'm saying. And now that he sees for himself that the UAE is a likely opportunity, now he's going to like, "Oh, UAE, UAE, I told you so. I told you so. See, I'm saying UAE. I'm saying UAE." And he's positioning himself. So now I have to watch history be rewritten because if the UAE thing comes to fruition, and it's going to in my personal opinion, guess what Fabio's going to do? I told you so. I told you so. But yet I've been covering it two years before.

And so, do I just sit back? It's like, okay, I understand the whole position of well, just let it go. It's not really that big of a deal, but it's like how many of these should I let go? Because this is the whole reason why I can't stop doing content and just go off and do whatever is because history will be rewritten. People will take credit for things that they didn't do.

Like, Fabio is sitting here taking credit for the whole UAE thing. And like I'm the only real creator who's been covering this for the last two years and I've done multiple videos about it, including here recently, a few months ago.

Fabio's done no technical education. Fabio has not made the business case for any of this. That's what I've been doing. He pulls up a couple of Dom's tweets and say, "Hey, yeah, I think there's something going on here." You see what I'm saying?

And so I get why whoever is watching this, I get why you might say this is not really a big deal. But I take a lot of pride and I take it very serious when I know that something big originated on my channel because it's like my main goal is just to give people the highest quality information and to bring them into the future to give them the vision of the future. All of my content is forward-looking. All of Fabio's content is just looking at what's in the feed that day. He does general updates. I do forward-looking content, but now he's trying to skirt the actual here's the business case. Here's the value proposition. Here's the education on why this makes sense. That's what I did. He's just, oh, UAE, here's Dom's tweets. So, UAE, I told you so, guys. I told you so.

I already shared a lot of meaningful information and connected the dots. But again, if you go watch his video, it's a very weak case for why something is likely happening when you go look at all of my stuff. But he can't refer to that because then he'd have to actually credit me and credit the source of who's actually been talking about this longer than anybody else, which is myself.

And it's the same thing with the NASDAQ. This is just turning into engagement farming and for farming me for information and for basically alpha and then he's not supporting my account. He's not crediting me and then he's going and taking credit for it himself. This is a grift. Period.

And it's the same thing with the NASDAQ. See what he was doing with the NASDAQ is painting the broadest brush possible. Now, anytime a tech company in the future works with ICP, I told you so, guys. I told you. I told you NASDAQ tech companies, they're working with ICP. See, I told you about all this.

But he's not actually making the case. He's just throwing out speculation and farming people for engagement and trying to act like he has some secret knowledge and he doesn't.

NASDAQ was just to give the most general prediction possible. So now in the future when any tech company on Earth uses ICP, he can say, "I told you so." Which I've done multiple videos who laid out the actual case. See, a year and a half ago, it was just an unrealistic thing for 99% of people or 95 plus% of people to assume that big tech was ever going to use ICP. However, after I laid out the case over multiple different videos, I laid out the business case, laid out the technical case, did multiple educational pieces on it. Now, it's the assumption. That's the new paradigm is that people believe that this is going to happen in the future because they understand the case for it. But now, if a big tech company were to partner with ICP next week, you want to know what Fabio is going to say? I told you guys, NASDAQ, I told you so.

So now that he sees what's likely to happen in the UAE, he's getting on record saying something about the UAE so he can say, "I told you so." Guys, this is very similar to normal crypto creators who just get on record saying something positive about ICP and then they go right back to all their other stuff. And so they can say in the future, I told you. They're just getting on record saying something. Not doing real education, not making the real business case, not making the real technical case, nothing. Just getting on record saying UAE or NASDAQ or big tech so he can say I told you so.

Again, man, he created his private account days after mine. I said I was going to do a reaction video to Dom's video. The very next morning, he does a reaction video to Dom's video, and he doesn't do reaction videos. And the whole long liquidations thing, and there's other examples, guys. I'm just this is just there's so many other examples. I just it's like how much time am I going to spend putting all this together?

And so I have to sit back and watch him take credit for something that originated on my channel that I put multiple videos multiple time I mean over two years in 2024 2025 2026 I've done videos in each of those years about this very thing making the case from different angles highlighting different technical things making different technical cases and different business cases. But now when it happens he's going to take credit for it that he was the source of it.

I'm borderline wanting to call him out for engagement farming and for farming me for information, not supporting my channel, not crediting my channel, and trying to take credit for something that originated on my channel. And I know it's easy to say, Bobby, just let it go. It's not a big deal. It's like if — imagine five other creators doing the exact same thing with other things. History would be rewritten if I don't actually stand up for myself and say, "No, this actually started on my channel, Fabio." And you probably know that.

That's all I got. Let me know y'all's feedback. Again, I could make a much much stronger case using tons of additional things that have happened. I've been sitting back and watching this happen and I could make a much much stronger case using so many more examples. So, I want to get y'all's feedback. That's all I got. Take care. Have a good day and appreciate any feedback.
